src/pages/archives/downloads/index.md, before:

---
title: "Downloads"
publishDate: "2012-09-02"
layout: '$layouts/BlogPost.astro'
disqusIdentifier: 752
disqusCanonical: 'https://settlers2.net/the-settlers-2/downloads'
---

A very complete demo + update listing for The Settlers II! Original files mostly retrieved from BlueByte FTP server back when it was still online.

| Type | Filename | Filesize | Version | Description |
| :---: | --- | ---: | ---: | --- |
| Beta | [S2DEMO1.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2demo1.zip) | 3.79 MB | 0.16 | Die Siedler II: Erste Demo<br />The first demo released to the public, German language. |
| Demo | [SETTLER2.ZIP](/downloads/demo/settler2_v101.zip) | 50.0 MB | 1.01 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Includes a video and other files not required by the demo. |
| Demo | [SETTLER2.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/settler2_v102.zip) | 3.41 MB | 1.02 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Includes only files required to run the demo. |
| Demo | [S2MISS.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2miss.zip) | 9.91 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Mission CD<br />Includes a 15 minute demo version of Map Editor. Has a few files not found in S2GOLD.ZIP and there are differences in a few files. |
| Demo | [S2GOLD.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2gold.zip) | 9.75 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Gold Edition<br />Includes a 15 minute time limited demo version of Map Editor. Has one or two files not found in S2MISS.ZIP. |
| Update | [S2V151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2v151.zip) | 1.57 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Updates original game to version 1.51, no Map Editor included. |
| Update | [S2UP151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2up151.zip) | 2.77 MB | 1.51 | Die Siedler II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Updates German version of original game to version 1.51, no Map Editor included. |
| Update | [S2MUP151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2mup151.zip) | 1.23 MB | 1.51 | Die Siedler II: Mission Disk<br />Updates German Mission CD to version 1.51, includes full version of Map Editor. |

Apparently there is no German demo archives available, only English language demos, excluding the "erste demo" that is more of a preview or beta release than a true demo.

## Making the above a full game

It is possible to use the files provided above to make a virtually full copy of the game; or use the files for playing Return to the Roots. You'll miss a few things like all the fan made maps provided with the Gold Edition, but essentially mixing the files and using the latest version when there is a conflict will result into a full game, including the Map Editor. I won't give you more instructions than that as this is a questionable area, but the files listed above are officially provided – the only change is repacking to a ZIP file as the original executables no longer work on modern computers if you don't have special tools.

Commit message:

Add 0.15 demo, graphics, update downloads page

src/pages/archives/downloads/index.md, after:

---
title: "Downloads"
publishDate: "2012-09-02"
layout: '$layouts/BlogPost.astro'
disqusIdentifier: 752
disqusCanonical: 'https://settlers2.net/the-settlers-2/downloads'
---

Original files mostly retrieved from BlueByte FTP server back when it was still online. Special thanks to German fans providing Erste Demo versions, and Hallfiry from 0.15 beta!

| Type | Filename | Filesize | Version | Description |
| :---: | --- | ---: | ---: | --- |
| Beta | [s2demo15.ZIP](/downloads/demo/s2demo15.zip) | 20.8 MB | 0.15 | Die Siedler II: Erste Demo<br />The first demo released to the public (more images + video), German language. |
| Beta | [s2demo16.ZIP](/downloads/demo/s2demo16.zip) | 3.79 MB | 0.16 | Die Siedler II: Erste Demo<br />The first demo released to the public, German language. |
| Beta | [S2DEMO1.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2demo1.zip) | 3.79 MB | 0.16 | Die Siedler II: Erste Demo<br />The first demo released to the public, German language. (WordPress era upload) |
| Demo | [SETTLER2.ZIP](/downloads/demo/settler2_v101.zip) | 50.0 MB | 1.01 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Includes a video and other files not required by the demo. |
| Demo | [SETTLER2.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/settler2_v102.zip) | 3.41 MB | 1.02 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Includes only files required to run the demo. |
| Demo | [S2MISS.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2miss.zip) | 9.91 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Mission CD<br />Includes a 15 minute demo version of Map Editor. Has a few files not found in S2GOLD.ZIP and there are differences in a few files. |
| Demo | [S2GOLD.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2gold.zip) | 9.75 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Gold Edition<br />Includes a 15 minute time limited demo version of Map Editor. Has one or two files not found in S2MISS.ZIP. |
| Update | [S2V151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2v151.zip) | 1.57 MB | 1.51 | The Settlers II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Updates original game to version 1.51, no Map Editor included. |
| Update | [S2UP151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2up151.zip) | 2.77 MB | 1.51 | Die Siedler II: Veni Vidi Vici<br />Updates German version of original game to version 1.51, no Map Editor included. |
| Update | [S2MUP151.ZIP](/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/s2mup151.zip) | 1.23 MB | 1.51 | Die Siedler II: Mission Disk<br />Updates German Mission CD to version 1.51, includes full version of Map Editor. |

If you spend some time you can collect together all or almost all the files required to create a full game out of the archives provided above. But hey, the game is often just 2.50 € over a GOG so these files are mostly for the curious who want to dig deeper and research how the game evolved over time.
