src/pages/archives/texture-pack-rusty-polar/index.md, before:

---
title: "Texture pack: Rusty Polar"
publishDate: "2022-03-26"
layout: '$layouts/BlogPost.astro'
---

## First Release Candidate now available!

Wasteland is an underground cave full of lava. Winter World is all about snow.

This new texture pack replaces these two texture sets with a pair of beautiful new textures!

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC1.zip)

### Rusty Valley texture set (Wasteland replacement)

Visit the dry and sandy environment, welcome to Rusty Valley!

![Desert and muddy water in Rusty Valley texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_rusty_valley_1.png)

![Water and farm fields in Rusty Valley texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_rusty_valley_2.png)

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC1.zip)

### Polar Night texture set (Winter World replacement)

Inspired by the moment of early polar winter when sun is past the horizon and temperature is about to plummet.

![Snowy buildings and trees on grass in Polar Night texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_polar_night_1.png)

![Enemy soldiers walking in Polar Night texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_polar_night_2.png)

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC1.zip)

## Installation

1. Have a The Settlers II: Gold Edition (or Return to the Roots) game directory ready
2. Clone it if you want to have installation with the original textures
3. Extract zip contents to the game root directory

Commit message:

Rusty Polar RC2: Wetlands texture set

src/pages/archives/texture-pack-rusty-polar/index.md, after:

---
title: "Texture pack: Rusty Polar"
publishDate: "2022-03-26"
layout: '$layouts/BlogPost.astro'
---

## Rusty Polar Release Candidate 2 now available!

Greenland has beaches and desert. Wasteland is an underground cave full of lava. Winter World is all about snow.

This new texture pack replaces all three texture sets with three beautiful new textures!

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.zip)


### Wetlands texture set (Greenland replacement)

Say goodbye to the sandy beaches and dry desert sands, it is time to hydrate in Wetlands!

![Stones breaking ground in Wetlands texture set](/assets/2022-03-27_wetlands_1.png)

![Wetlands texture set has darker tone than Greenland original](/assets/2022-03-27_wetlands_2.png)

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.zip)


### Rusty Valley texture set (Wasteland replacement)

Visit the dry and sandy environment, welcome to Rusty Valley!

![Desert and muddy water in Rusty Valley texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_rusty_valley_1.png)

![Water and farm fields in Rusty Valley texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_rusty_valley_2.png)

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.zip)


### Polar Night texture set (Winter World replacement)

Inspired by the moment of early polar winter when sun is past the horizon and temperature is about to plummet.

![Snowy buildings and trees on grass in Polar Night texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_polar_night_1.png)

![Enemy soldiers walking in Polar Night texture set](/assets/2022-03-26_polar_night_2.png)

[**Download `TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.ZIP`**](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC2.zip)


## Installation

1. Have a The Settlers II: Gold Edition (or Return to the Roots) game directory ready
2. Clone it if you want to have installation with the original textures
3. Extract zip contents to the game root directory


### Archives

Interested of the past?

- [Release Candidate 1](/downloads/TEX_RUSTY_POLAR_RC1.zip)
